1. Why we need git ?
2. What makes git unique from other tools like SVN?
3. Lets say i have maven repo cloned on to my local, did some changes and i have build the code now target floder will generated. So now when i do git operations like git add, git commit
or any other git operations target folder should not be considered, how would you achieve the same?
4. Diff b/w git pull and git fetch ?
5. How to clone specific branch in git?
6. When I issue mvn install what all things happens in background?
7. What are the settings you need to do before running mvn deploy?
8. Whay maven takes much time for 1st execution and from 2nd execution it will take less time?
9. how to get present working floder ?
10. how to copy files from local windows machine to cloud based linux machine?
11. A shell script named test.sh can accept 4 parameters i.e a b c d the parameters wont supplied in order always and number parameters might also vary (only 2 parameters user might supply
sometimes ), how to identify position of letter c ?
12. Why we need ad-hoc commands, give scenario where you have used ansible ad-hoc commands?
13. When i need detailed logs on executing ansible playbook what option i need to use?
14. What are the modules have you worked on? Which module will you use for getting the file from node to master?
15. Lets say i have a playbook which has 5 tasks in playbook, first 2 tasks should run on local machine and other 3 tasks should run on node?
16. how to save only last 5 builds of jenkins job ?
17. Have you worked on jenkinfile?
18. Can we you use docker in jenkinsfile as a node?
19. Who will handle docker container creation and deletion? If i am building a maven project always docker container is fresh instance it will try to download dependency from repository,
what measurs you will take to reduce build time?
20. Why we need multi branch pipeline?
21. if you forgot jenkins password, how would login back?
22. Any 3 best practices of docker ?
23. diff b/w docker stop and docker kill?
24. Command to list containers which state is exited?
25. Command to cleanup docker host (deleting stopped containers, dangling images and unused networks) ?
26. What version of docker you have used?
27. Specific reason to use that particular version?
28.Can we have multiple CMD in Dockerfile?
29. Have you worked on docker swarm and docker compose?
30. Can we have multiple containers in a pod?
31. Can we have similar containers in pod ?
32. Lets say i have 4 containers, one of them has failed how would you check which container has failed?
33. What is liveness and readness probe? Why we need them?
34. Have you worked on kubernetes monitoring? Which tools you have used?
35. Can we deploy a pod on particular node?